So now we're going to move on from our animations and connect through games to see how we can embed
video in our apps.
It's actually really easy to do.
So let's start with a new project with a cool video demo.
Set it up in the usual way.
And while that setting up you will need a video to use in your apps so maybe you've got an MP for file
to hand.
But if not you can just go to Android of course dot com forward slash demo video or MP 4 and depending
on which browser you have it will start downloading or start playing if it plays then just control click
or right click and download video and that will then download the video to your computer so you can
use it in the app but any video that you can find will work.
OK.
Now we need to put the video into the app and to do that we need to create a new folder within the resources
folder.
So the easiest way to do that I think is to control click on the Mac or right click on PC and reveal
in Finder or Windows Explorer and then just in the normal way that you would create a folder had a new
folder called rawe and this is going to be where we put our video content.
So once you've added that new folder find the demo video that you've just downloaded and drag it in
there we get to the videos.
Now there we just need to refresh Oh sometimes it does it itself very helpfully.
If it doesn't then you just need to control click or right click and synchronize raise.
All right.
Now we've got our video.
We just need to add the facility to play it.
So let's add a video player in the main activity layout so will do a search and you can see we've got
something very helpfully called Video view.
That sounds pretty promising.
So we'll bring it in and we'll make it full screen
stretched to the edge and then we need to know is it id which is of course video view.
All right.
So now we just need to write a code to attach the video to the video view.
We'll do that in the on create method because we want this to be attached and play as soon as we open
the app.
And as usual we'll create that element with the class that we want say video view cool video view and
we'll use find view by ID
or ID top video.
And we'll do the casting even though it's not strictly required above API 26.
The next we need to set the path of the video that we want to use with avideo Ivy say video of you don't
set video path and then we need to get this exactly right.
So as a string we start off with Android dot resource and then curl on double slash.
That's a bit like HTP the slash as you would use for an internet address but this says that we're going
to look inside the Android resources area and then we want to access our resource area for this particular
app.
So we add the package name
to how video path.
And then we just need to add a slash in there and then we had the file name which is stored in our top
row dot demo video.
So that's how you access resources that are stored in the file structure of your app and then very simply
we use video view start three lines of code and we've got a video up and running in our app.
Let's take a look and there it is.
You can see in the new Android Studio 3 it actually plays much smoother in the emulator than it did
invention to excellent.
So now we've got video up and running but you may have noticed that there were no controls on that video
so that might be what you want if you want to force your users to watch her particular video but normally
you're going to want to give them controls to pause and seek back and forth et cetera.
So to do that we bring in a media controller.
We call it media control and it's going to be a new media control the and we just have to define the
context of the media controller which as usual is this app which we use the key word this to refer to
and then we just need to link that up to our video.
So media control got set anchor view we want to anchor it to our video of you.
And then finally we want to allow that to control our video view.
So we use video of you don't set media controller and the media control what does it is the media control
we've just created.
All right let's take a look.
So we should now be able to say via video but also control it.
And there you go.
So we can now pause seek back and forth et cetera.
So super easy.
That's how you add video to your app.
In just five lines of code now we're going to jump straight on to see how we do the same thing with
audio.